New additions to next (#2983)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/about-cloud/architecture.md

id: architecture
---

This page is intended to help practitioners and those interested in the architecture and data flow of the hosted dbt Cloud product.

## About dbt Cloud architecture

The dbt Cloud application comprises a set of static and dynamic components. The static components are constantly running to serve highly available dbt Cloud functionality, for example, the dbt Cloud web application. The dynamic components are created ad-hoc to fill background jobs or requests to use the IDE. 

dbt Cloud is available in most regions around the world in both [single tenant](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/tenancy#single-tenant)(AWS and Azure) and [multi-tenant](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/tenancy#multi-tenant) configurations.  

dbt Cloud uses PostgreSQL for its backend, S3-compatible Object Storage systems for logs and artifacts, and a Kubernetes storage solution for creating dynamic, persistent volumes. 

All data at rest on dbt Cloud servers is protected using AES-256 encryption. 

<img src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/on-premises/data-flows.png" />

> For a more detailed breakdown of the dbt Cloud apps, [download the advanced architecture guide](./assets/dbt-cloud-advanced-architecture-guide.pdf).

Reviewer: When I click this link I get a 404 but if I right-click and open in new tab it works. Can you ask @JKarlavige and team for their advice?

Author: Someone from dev is going over this now

Author: Going to use a Google Drive link until this gets figured out

## Communication

dbt Cloud can communicate with several external services, including data platforms, git repositories, authentication services, and directories. All communications occur over HTTPS (attempts to connect via HTTP are redirected to HTTPS). dbt Cloud encrypts in transit using the TLS 1.2 cryptographic protocol. 

For more detailed information on our security practices, read our [Security page](https://getdbt.com/security).

### Data warehouse interaction

dbt Cloud's primary role is as a data processor, not a data store. The dbt Cloud application enables users to dispatch SQL to the warehouse for transformation. However, users can post SQL that returns customer data into the dbt Cloud application. This data never persists and will only exist in memory on the instance for the duration of the session. To properly lock down customer data, proper <Term id="data-warehouse" /> permissions must be applied to prevent improper access or storage of sensitive data.

### Git sync

> dbt Cloud can sync with a variety of git repos, including [Github](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github) and [Gitlab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), within it's integrated developement environment ([IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud)). Communication takes place over HTTPS, rather than SSH, and is protected using the TLS 1.2 protocol for data in transit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud can sync with a variety of git repos, including [Github](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github) and [Gitlab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), within its integrated development environment ([IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud)). Communication takes place over HTTPS, rather than SSH, and is protected using the TLS 1.2 protocol for data in transit.
```
